# Double_Linked_List
Implements the double-linked-list class from scratch. This project contains pre-loaded data to show that it works however it can easily be adopted into a project where the usage of a double linked list data structure would be advantageous. It is worth noting that while Java does have a built in class for Double Linked Lists and Linked Lists, this was a challenge specifically to build one from the group up.

WHY USE A LINKED LIST STRUCTURE?
Linked Lists and Double Linked Lists are unique data structures that to a new programmer are difficult to grasp and that is precisely why I set out to build a class to better understand them. They are linear in structure and much like an ArrayList, can hold any object type. The unique thing about a Linked List structure is that each of the objects is stored as a "node" instead of indexed as in an Array. When objects are added to an Array, they are indexed starting at 0 and going to the nth-1 (ie if you have 10 objects their indices range from 0-9) and each object exists independently from another, that is they are not "aware" of one another. In a linked list structure there is no indexing but rather each node (object in list) points to the next one. So if you start at the beginning of a linked list, to find the next item you must "ask" the first node what the next node is. In a double linked list, a node knows the location of the node before, and after itself. The advantages to using a data structure like this mainly lie with insertion. In an Array, when you insert a new object, all objects in the array previous to insertion must have their index changed. For example, inserting an 11th object into an array containing 10 objects will require all of the all the objects after it to have their indicies changed by n+1 and all objects after it n-1. This could be particularly disadvantagous when working with an extremely large Array where re assigning new indicies requires a large amount of memory allocation. With a linked list, insertion of a new object only requires you to change the "pointer" on 1 or perhaps 2 nodes. Meaning if you insert a new node after the first node in a linked list, you must only update the first node to say that the next node is the one you just inserted and the new node must be updated to point at the next node in the line. Much less memory allocation and much quicker to insert.
